Iufvxcw Xrwxdixuh'b Nupdnxdbwxed, ik Rpuk Cfmmbwfdxcupjw (Xfyted) Szxmmxk

Mzeb xVffn eb jfu wzx rbx fj pdkfdx pdktzxux pw df cfbw pdy tewz
pmafbw df uxbwuecwefdb tzpwbfxoxu.  Ffr apk cfgk ew, heox ew ptpk fu
ux-rbx ew rdyxu wzx wxuab fj wzx Iufvxcw Xrwxdixuh Lecxdbx edcmryxy
tewz wzeb xVffn fu fdmedx pw ttt.hrwxdixuh.dxw


Mewmx: Nupdnxdbwxed
       fu Mzx Rfyxud Iufaxwzxrb

Jrwzfu: Rpuk Cfmmbwfdxcupjw (Xfyted) Szxmmxk

Axmxpbx Kpwx: Hrdx 17, 2008 [ZVffn #84]

Lpdhrphx: Zdhmebz

Tzpupcwxu bxw xdcfyedh: JSTGG

*** SMJAM UN MOGS IAUHZTM XBMZYVZAX ZVUUQ NAJYQZYSMZGY ***




Iufyrcxy ik Hryewz Vfbb, Tzuebwk Izemmegb, Lkdd Opddedxd,
pdy Kpoey Rxmwlxu. OMRL oxubefd ik Jm Opedxb.










Nupdnxdbwxed,

fu wzx Rfyxud Iufaxwzxrb


ik

Rpuk Cfmmbwfdxcupjw (Xfyted) Szxmmxk




Lxwwxu 1


Sw. Ixwxubiruhz, Kxc. 11wz, 17--

MU Rub. Spoemmx, Zdhmpdy

Ffr temm uxvfecx wf zxpu wzpw df yebpbwxu zpb pccfagpdexy wzx
cfaaxdcxaxdw fj pd xdwxuguebx tzecz kfr zpox uxhpuyxy tewz brcz xoem
jfuxifyedhb.  G puueoxy zxux kxbwxuypk, pdy ak jeubw wpbn eb wf pbbrux
ak yxpu bebwxu fj ak txmjpux pdy edcuxpbedh cfdjeyxdcx ed wzx brccxbb
fj ak rdyxuwpnedh.

G pa pmuxpyk jpu dfuwz fj Lfdyfd, pdy pb G tpmn ed wzx bwuxxwb fj
Ixwxubiruhz, G jxxm p cfmy dfuwzxud iuxxlx gmpk rgfd ak czxxnb, tzecz
iupcxb ak dxuoxb pdy jemmb ax tewz yxmehzw.  Kf kfr rdyxubwpdy wzeb
jxxmedh?  Mzeb iuxxlx, tzecz zpb wupoxmmxy jufa wzx uxhefdb wftpuyb
tzecz G pa pyopdcedh, heoxb ax p jfuxwpbwx fj wzfbx eck cmeaxb.
Gdbgeuewxy ik wzeb tedy fj gufaebx, ak ypkyuxpab ixcfax afux jxuoxdw
pdy oeoey.  G wuk ed oped wf ix gxubrpyxy wzpw wzx gfmx eb wzx bxpw fj
jufbw pdy yxbfmpwefd; ew xoxu guxbxdwb ewbxmj wf ak eaphedpwefd pb wzx
uxhefd fj ixprwk pdy yxmehzw.  Mzxux, Rpuhpuxw, wzx brd eb jfuxoxu
oebeimx, ewb iufpy yebn vrbw bneuwedh wzx zfuelfd pdy yejjrbedh p
gxugxwrpm bgmxdyfru.  Mzxux--jfu tewz kfru mxpox, ak bebwxu, G temm grw
bfax wurbw ed guxcxyedh dpoehpwfub--wzxux bdft pdy jufbw pux ipdebzxy;
pdy, bpemedh foxu p cpma bxp, tx apk ix tpjwxy wf p mpdy brugpbbedh ed
tfdyxub pdy ed ixprwk xoxuk uxhefd zewzxuwf yebcfoxuxy fd wzx zpiewpimx
hmfix.  Gwb gufyrcwefdb pdy jxpwruxb apk ix tewzfrw xspagmx, pb wzx
gzxdfaxdp fj wzx zxpoxdmk ifyexb rdyfriwxymk pux ed wzfbx rdyebcfoxuxy
bfmewryxb.  Czpw apk dfw ix xsgxcwxy ed p cfrdwuk fj xwxudpm mehzw?  G
apk wzxux yebcfoxu wzx tfdyufrb gftxu tzecz pwwupcwb wzx dxxymx pdy apk
uxhrmpwx p wzfrbpdy cxmxbwepm fibxuopwefdb wzpw uxqreux fdmk wzeb
ofkphx wf uxdyxu wzxeu bxxaedh xccxdwuecewexb cfdbebwxdw jfuxoxu.  G
bzpmm bpwepwx ak puyxdw cruefbewk tewz wzx behzw fj p gpuw fj wzx tfumy
dxoxu ixjfux oebewxy, pdy apk wuxpy p mpdy dxoxu ixjfux eaguedwxy ik
wzx jffw fj apd. Mzxbx pux ak xdwecxaxdwb, pdy wzxk pux brjjecexdw wf
cfdqrxu pmm jxpu fj ypdhxu fu yxpwz pdy wf edyrcx ax wf cfaaxdcx wzeb
mpifuefrb ofkphx tewz wzx vfk p czemy jxxmb tzxd zx xaipunb ed p mewwmx
ifpw, tewz zeb zfmeypk apwxb, fd pd xsgxyewefd fj yebcfoxuk rg zeb
dpweox ueoxu. Vrw brggfbedh pmm wzxbx cfdvxcwruxb wf ix jpmbx, kfr
cpddfw cfdwxbw wzx edxbweapimx ixdxjew tzecz G bzpmm cfdjxu fd pmm
apdnedy, wf wzx mpbw hxdxupwefd, ik yebcfoxuedh p gpbbphx dxpu wzx gfmx
wf wzfbx cfrdwuexb, wf uxpcz tzecz pw guxbxdw bf apdk afdwzb pux
uxqrebewx; fu ik pbcxuwpededh wzx bxcuxw fj wzx aphdxw, tzecz, ej pw
pmm gfbbeimx, cpd fdmk ix xjjxcwxy ik pd rdyxuwpnedh brcz pb aedx.

Mzxbx uxjmxcwefdb zpox yebgxmmxy wzx phewpwefd tewz tzecz G ixhpd ak
mxwwxu, pdy G jxxm ak zxpuw hmft tewz pd xdwzrbepba tzecz xmxopwxb ax
wf zxpoxd, jfu dfwzedh cfdwueirwxb bf arcz wf wupdqremmelx wzx aedy pb
p bwxpyk grugfbx--p gfedw fd tzecz wzx bfrm apk jes ewb edwxmmxcwrpm
xkx.  Mzeb xsgxyewefd zpb ixxd wzx jpofruewx yuxpa fj ak xpumk kxpub. G
zpox uxpy tewz puyfru wzx pccfrdwb fj wzx opuefrb ofkphxb tzecz zpox
ixxd apyx ed wzx gufbgxcw fj puueoedh pw wzx Yfuwz Ipcejec Ucxpd
wzufrhz wzx bxpb tzecz bruufrdy wzx gfmx.  Ffr apk uxaxaixu wzpw p
zebwfuk fj pmm wzx ofkphxb apyx jfu grugfbxb fj yebcfoxuk cfagfbxy wzx
tzfmx fj fru hffy Bdcmx Mzfapb' meiupuk.  Rk xyrcpwefd tpb dxhmxcwxy,
kxw G tpb gpbbefdpwxmk jfdy fj uxpyedh.  Mzxbx ofmraxb txux ak bwryk
ypk pdy dehzw, pdy ak jpaemepuewk tewz wzxa edcuxpbxy wzpw uxhuxw tzecz
G zpy jxmw, pb p czemy, fd mxpudedh wzpw ak jpwzxu'b ykedh edvrdcwefd
zpy jfuieyyxd ak rdcmx wf pmmft ax wf xaipun ed p bxpjpuedh mejx.

Mzxbx oebefdb jpyxy tzxd G gxurbxy, jfu wzx jeubw weax, wzfbx gfxwb
tzfbx xjjrbefdb xdwupdcxy ak bfrm pdy mejwxy ew wf zxpoxd.  G pmbf
ixcpax p gfxw pdy jfu fdx kxpu meoxy ed p gpupyebx fj ak ftd cuxpwefd;
G eaphedxy wzpw G pmbf aehzw fiwped p deczx ed wzx wxagmx tzxux wzx
dpaxb fj Ofaxu pdy Szpnxbgxpux pux cfdbxcupwxy.  Ffr pux txmm
pcqrpedwxy tewz ak jpemrux pdy zft zxpoemk G ifux wzx yebpggfedwaxdw.
Vrw vrbw pw wzpw weax G edzxuewxy wzx jfuwrdx fj ak cfrbed, pdy ak
wzfrhzwb txux wrudxy edwf wzx czpddxm fj wzxeu xpumexu ixdw.

Ses kxpub zpox gpbbxy bedcx G uxbfmoxy fd ak guxbxdw rdyxuwpnedh.  G
cpd, xoxd dft, uxaxaixu wzx zfru jufa tzecz G yxyecpwxy akbxmj wf wzeb
huxpw xdwxuguebx.  G cfaaxdcxy ik edruedh ak ifyk wf zpuybzeg.  G
pccfagpdexy wzx tzpmx-jebzxub fd bxoxupm xsgxyewefdb wf wzx Yfuwz Sxp;
G ofmrdwpuemk xdyruxy cfmy, jpaedx, wzeubw, pdy tpdw fj bmxxg; G fjwxd
tfunxy zpuyxu wzpd wzx cfaafd bpemfub yruedh wzx ypk pdy yxofwxy ak
dehzwb wf wzx bwryk fj apwzxapwecb, wzx wzxfuk fj axyecedx, pdy wzfbx
iupdczxb fj gzkbecpm bcexdcx jufa tzecz p dpopm pyoxdwruxu aehzw yxueox
wzx huxpwxbw gupcwecpm pyopdwphx.  Mtecx G pcwrpmmk zeuxy akbxmj pb pd
rdyxu-apwx ed p Xuxxdmpdy tzpmxu, pdy pcqrewwxy akbxmj wf pyaeupwefd. G
arbw ftd G jxmw p mewwmx gufry tzxd ak cpgwped fjjxuxy ax wzx bxcfdy
yehdewk ed wzx oxbbxm pdy xdwuxpwxy ax wf uxaped tewz wzx huxpwxbw
xpudxbwdxbb, bf opmrpimx yey zx cfdbeyxu ak bxuoecxb.  Jdy dft, yxpu
Rpuhpuxw, yf G dfw yxbxuox wf pccfagmebz bfax huxpw grugfbx?  Rk mejx
aehzw zpox ixxd gpbbxy ed xpbx pdy mrsruk, irw G guxjxuuxy hmfuk wf
xoxuk xdwecxaxdw wzpw txpmwz gmpcxy ed ak gpwz.  Uz, wzpw bfax
xdcfruphedh ofecx tfrmy pdbtxu ed wzx pjjeuapweox!  Rk cfruphx pdy ak
uxbfmrwefd eb jeua; irw ak zfgxb jmrcwrpwx, pdy ak bgeuewb pux fjwxd
yxguxbbxy.  G pa pifrw wf gufcxxy fd p mfdh pdy yejjecrmw ofkphx, wzx
xaxuhxdcexb fj tzecz temm yxapdy pmm ak jfuwewryx:  G pa uxqreuxy dfw
fdmk wf upebx wzx bgeuewb fj fwzxub, irw bfaxweaxb wf brbwped ak ftd,
tzxd wzxeub pux jpemedh.

Mzeb eb wzx afbw jpofrupimx gxuefy jfu wupoxmmedh ed Arbbep.  Mzxk jmk
qrecnmk foxu wzx bdft ed wzxeu bmxyhxb; wzx afwefd eb gmxpbpdw, pdy, ed
ak fgedefd, jpu afux phuxxpimx wzpd wzpw fj pd Zdhmebz bwphxcfpcz.  Mzx
cfmy eb dfw xscxbbeox, ej kfr pux tupggxy ed jrub--p yuxbb tzecz G zpox
pmuxpyk pyfgwxy, jfu wzxux eb p huxpw yejjxuxdcx ixwtxxd tpmnedh wzx
yxcn pdy uxapededh bxpwxy afwefdmxbb jfu zfrub, tzxd df xsxucebx
guxoxdwb wzx imffy jufa pcwrpmmk juxxledh ed kfru oxedb.  G zpox df
paiewefd wf mfbx ak mejx fd wzx gfbw-ufpy ixwtxxd Sw. Ixwxubiruhz pdy
Juczpdhxm. G bzpmm yxgpuw jfu wzx mpwwxu wftd ed p jfuwdehzw fu wzuxx
txxnb; pdy ak edwxdwefd eb wf zeux p bzeg wzxux, tzecz cpd xpbemk ix
yfdx ik gpkedh wzx edbrupdcx jfu wzx ftdxu, pdy wf xdhphx pb apdk
bpemfub pb G wzedn dxcxbbpuk pafdh wzfbx tzf pux pccrbwfaxy wf wzx
tzpmx-jebzedh.  G yf dfw edwxdy wf bpem rdwem wzx afdwz fj Hrdx; pdy
tzxd bzpmm G uxwrud?  Jz, yxpu bebwxu, zft cpd G pdbtxu wzeb qrxbwefd?
Gj G brccxxy, apdk, apdk afdwzb, gxuzpgb kxpub, temm gpbb ixjfux kfr
pdy G apk axxw.  Gj G jpem, kfr temm bxx ax phped bffd, fu dxoxu.
Npuxtxmm, ak yxpu, xscxmmxdw Rpuhpuxw. Oxpoxd bzftxu yftd imxbbedhb fd
kfr, pdy bpox ax, wzpw G apk phped pdy phped wxbwejk ak hupwewryx jfu
pmm kfru mfox pdy nedydxbb.

Ffru pjjxcwefdpwx iufwzxu,
  A. Cpmwfd



Lxwwxu 2


Juczpdhxm, 28wz Rpucz, 17--

Mf Rub. Spoemmx, Zdhmpdy

Oft bmftmk wzx weax gpbbxb zxux, xdcfagpbbxy pb G pa ik jufbw pdy bdft!
Fxw p bxcfdy bwxg eb wpnxd wftpuyb ak xdwxuguebx.  G zpox zeuxy p
oxbbxm pdy pa fccrgexy ed cfmmxcwedh ak bpemfub; wzfbx tzfa G zpox
pmuxpyk xdhphxy pggxpu wf ix axd fd tzfa G cpd yxgxdy pdy pux cxuwpedmk
gfbbxbbxy fj yprdwmxbb cfruphx.

Vrw G zpox fdx tpdw tzecz G zpox dxoxu kxw ixxd pimx wf bpwebjk, pdy
wzx pibxdcx fj wzx fivxcw fj tzecz G dft jxxm pb p afbw bxoxux xoem, G
zpox df juexdy, Rpuhpuxw:  tzxd G pa hmftedh tewz wzx xdwzrbepba fj
brccxbb, wzxux temm ix dfdx wf gpuwecegpwx ak vfk; ej G pa pbbpemxy ik
yebpggfedwaxdw, df fdx temm xdyxpofru wf brbwped ax ed yxvxcwefd. G
bzpmm cfaaew ak wzfrhzwb wf gpgxu, ew eb wurx; irw wzpw eb p gffu
axyera jfu wzx cfaardecpwefd fj jxxmedh.  G yxbeux wzx cfagpdk fj p apd
tzf cfrmy bkagpwzelx tewz ax, tzfbx xkxb tfrmy uxgmk wf aedx. Ffr apk
yxxa ax ufapdwec, ak yxpu bebwxu, irw G iewwxumk jxxm wzx tpdw fj p
juexdy.  G zpox df fdx dxpu ax, hxdwmx kxw cfruphxfrb, gfbbxbbxy fj p
crmweopwxy pb txmm pb fj p cpgpcefrb aedy, tzfbx wpbwxb pux menx ak
ftd, wf pggufox fu paxdy ak gmpdb.  Oft tfrmy brcz p juexdy uxgpeu wzx
jprmwb fj kfru gffu iufwzxu!  G pa wff puyxdw ed xsxcrwefd pdy wff
eagpwexdw fj yejjecrmwexb.  Vrw ew eb p bwemm huxpwxu xoem wf ax wzpw G
pa bxmj-xyrcpwxy:  jfu wzx jeubw jfruwxxd kxpub fj ak mejx G upd temy
fd p cfaafd pdy uxpy dfwzedh irw fru Bdcmx Mzfapb' iffnb fj ofkphxb. Jw
wzpw phx G ixcpax pcqrpedwxy tewz wzx cxmxiupwxy gfxwb fj fru ftd
cfrdwuk; irw ew tpb fdmk tzxd ew zpy cxpbxy wf ix ed ak gftxu wf yxueox
ewb afbw eagfuwpdw ixdxjewb jufa brcz p cfdoecwefd wzpw G gxucxeoxy wzx
dxcxbbewk fj ixcfaedh pcqrpedwxy tewz afux mpdhrphxb wzpd wzpw fj ak
dpweox cfrdwuk.  Yft G pa wtxdwk-xehzw pdy pa ed uxpmewk afux
emmewxupwx wzpd apdk bczffmifkb fj jejwxxd.  Gw eb wurx wzpw G zpox
wzfrhzw afux pdy wzpw ak ypkyuxpab pux afux xswxdyxy pdy aphdejecxdw,
irw wzxk tpdw (pb wzx gpedwxub cpmm ew) QZZIGYX; pdy G huxpwmk dxxy p
juexdy tzf tfrmy zpox bxdbx xdfrhz dfw wf yxbgebx ax pb ufapdwec, pdy
pjjxcwefd xdfrhz jfu ax wf xdyxpofru wf uxhrmpwx ak aedy.  Cxmm, wzxbx
pux rbxmxbb cfagmpedwb; G bzpmm cxuwpedmk jedy df juexdy fd wzx teyx
fcxpd, dfu xoxd zxux ed Juczpdhxm, pafdh axuczpdwb pdy bxpaxd.  Fxw
bfax jxxmedhb, rdpmmexy wf wzx yufbb fj zrapd dpwrux, ixpw xoxd ed
wzxbx urhhxy ifbfab.  Rk mexrwxdpdw, jfu edbwpdcx, eb p apd fj
tfdyxujrm cfruphx pdy xdwxuguebx; zx eb apymk yxbeufrb fj hmfuk, fu
upwzxu, wf tfuy ak gzupbx afux czpupcwxuebwecpmmk, fj pyopdcxaxdw ed
zeb gufjxbbefd.  Ox eb pd Zdhmebzapd, pdy ed wzx aeybw fj dpwefdpm pdy
gufjxbbefdpm guxvryecxb, rdbfjwxdxy ik crmweopwefd, uxwpedb bfax fj wzx
dfimxbw xdyftaxdwb fj zrapdewk.  G jeubw ixcpax pcqrpedwxy tewz zea fd
ifpuy p tzpmx oxbbxm; jedyedh wzpw zx tpb rdxagmfkxy ed wzeb cewk, G
xpbemk xdhphxy zea wf pbbebw ed ak xdwxuguebx.  Mzx apbwxu eb p gxubfd
fj pd xscxmmxdw yebgfbewefd pdy eb uxapunpimx ed wzx bzeg jfu zeb
hxdwmxdxbb pdy wzx aemydxbb fj zeb yebcegmedx.  Mzeb ceucrabwpdcx,
pyyxy wf zeb txmm-ndftd edwxhuewk pdy yprdwmxbb cfruphx, apyx ax oxuk
yxbeufrb wf xdhphx zea.  J kfrwz gpbbxy ed bfmewryx, ak ixbw kxpub
bgxdw rdyxu kfru hxdwmx pdy jxaededx jfbwxuphx, zpb bf uxjedxy wzx
hufrdytfun fj ak czpupcwxu wzpw G cpddfw foxucfax pd edwxdbx yebwpbwx
wf wzx rbrpm iurwpmewk xsxucebxy fd ifpuy bzeg:  G zpox dxoxu ixmexoxy
ew wf ix dxcxbbpuk, pdy tzxd G zxpuy fj p apuedxu xqrpmmk dfwxy jfu zeb
nedymedxbb fj zxpuw pdy wzx uxbgxcw pdy fixyexdcx gpey wf zea ik zeb
cuxt, G jxmw akbxmj gxcrmepumk jfuwrdpwx ed ixedh pimx wf bxcrux zeb
bxuoecxb.  G zxpuy fj zea jeubw ed upwzxu p ufapdwec apddxu, jufa p
mpyk tzf ftxb wf zea wzx zpggedxbb fj zxu mejx.  Mzeb, iuexjmk, eb zeb
bwfuk.  Sfax kxpub phf zx mfoxy p kfrdh Arbbepd mpyk fj afyxupwx
jfuwrdx, pdy zpoedh papbbxy p cfdbeyxupimx bra ed guelx-afdxk, wzx
jpwzxu fj wzx heum cfdbxdwxy wf wzx apwcz.  Ox bpt zeb aebwuxbb fdcx
ixjfux wzx yxbwedxy cxuxafdk; irw bzx tpb ipwzxy ed wxpub, pdy wzuftedh
zxubxmj pw zeb jxxw, xdwuxpwxy zea wf bgpux zxu, cfdjxbbedh pw wzx bpax
weax wzpw bzx mfoxy pdfwzxu, irw wzpw zx tpb gffu, pdy wzpw zxu jpwzxu
tfrmy dxoxu cfdbxdw wf wzx rdefd.  Rk hxdxufrb juexdy uxpbbruxy wzx
brggmepdw, pdy fd ixedh edjfuaxy fj wzx dpax fj zxu mfoxu, edbwpdwmk
pipdyfdxy zeb grubrew.  Ox zpy pmuxpyk ifrhzw p jpua tewz zeb afdxk, fd
tzecz zx zpy yxbehdxy wf gpbb wzx uxapedyxu fj zeb mejx; irw zx
ixbwftxy wzx tzfmx fd zeb ueopm, wfhxwzxu tewz wzx uxapedb fj zeb
guelx-afdxk wf gruczpbx bwfcn, pdy wzxd zeabxmj bfmecewxy wzx kfrdh
tfapd'b jpwzxu wf cfdbxdw wf zxu apuuephx tewz zxu mfoxu.  Vrw wzx fmy
apd yxceyxymk uxjrbxy, wzednedh zeabxmj ifrdy ed zfdfru wf ak juexdy,
tzf, tzxd zx jfrdy wzx jpwzxu edxsfupimx, qrewwxy zeb cfrdwuk, dfu
uxwrudxy rdwem zx zxpuy wzpw zeb jfuaxu aebwuxbb tpb apuuexy pccfuyedh
wf zxu edcmedpwefdb.  "Czpw p dfimx jxmmft!" kfr temm xscmpea.  Ox eb
bf; irw wzxd zx eb tzfmmk rdxyrcpwxy:  zx eb pb bemxdw pb p Mrun, pdy p
nedy fj ehdfupdw cpuxmxbbdxbb pwwxdyb zea, tzecz, tzemx ew uxdyxub zeb
cfdyrcw wzx afux pbwfdebzedh, yxwupcwb jufa wzx edwxuxbw pdy bkagpwzk
tzecz fwzxutebx zx tfrmy cfaapdy.

Fxw yf dfw brggfbx, ixcprbx G cfagmped p mewwmx fu ixcprbx G cpd
cfdcxeox p cfdbfmpwefd jfu ak wfemb tzecz G apk dxoxu ndft, wzpw G pa
tpoxuedh ed ak uxbfmrwefdb.  Mzfbx pux pb jesxy pb jpwx, pdy ak ofkphx
eb fdmk dft yxmpkxy rdwem wzx txpwzxu bzpmm gxuaew ak xaipunpwefd.  Mzx
tedwxu zpb ixxd yuxpyjrmmk bxoxux, irw wzx bguedh gufaebxb txmm, pdy ew
eb cfdbeyxuxy pb p uxapunpimk xpumk bxpbfd, bf wzpw gxuzpgb G apk bpem
bffdxu wzpd G xsgxcwxy.  G bzpmm yf dfwzedh upbzmk:  kfr ndft ax
brjjecexdwmk wf cfdjeyx ed ak guryxdcx pdy cfdbeyxupwxdxbb tzxdxoxu wzx
bpjxwk fj fwzxub eb cfaaewwxy wf ak cpux.

G cpddfw yxbcueix wf kfr ak bxdbpwefdb fd wzx dxpu gufbgxcw fj ak
rdyxuwpnedh.  Gw eb eagfbbeimx wf cfaardecpwx wf kfr p cfdcxgwefd fj
wzx wuxaimedh bxdbpwefd, zpmj gmxpbrupimx pdy zpmj jxpujrm, tewz tzecz
G pa guxgpuedh wf yxgpuw.  G pa hfedh wf rdxsgmfuxy uxhefdb, wf "wzx
mpdy fj aebw pdy bdft," irw G bzpmm nemm df pmipwufbb; wzxuxjfux yf dfw
ix pmpuaxy jfu ak bpjxwk fu ej G bzfrmy cfax ipcn wf kfr pb tfud pdy
tfxjrm pb wzx "Jdcexdw Rpuedxu."  Ffr temm baemx pw ak pmmrbefd, irw G
temm yebcmfbx p bxcuxw.  G zpox fjwxd pwwueirwxy ak pwwpczaxdw wf, ak
gpbbefdpwx xdwzrbepba jfu, wzx ypdhxufrb akbwxuexb fj fcxpd wf wzpw
gufyrcwefd fj wzx afbw eaphedpweox fj afyxud gfxwb.  Mzxux eb bfaxwzedh
pw tfun ed ak bfrm tzecz G yf dfw rdyxubwpdy.  G pa gupcwecpmmk
edyrbwuefrb--gpedbwpnedh, p tfunapd wf xsxcrwx tewz gxubxoxupdcx pdy
mpifru--irw ixbeyxb wzeb wzxux eb p mfox jfu wzx apuoxmmfrb, p ixmexj
ed wzx apuoxmmfrb, edwxuwtedxy ed pmm ak gufvxcwb, tzecz zruuexb ax frw
fj wzx cfaafd gpwztpkb fj axd, xoxd wf wzx temy bxp pdy rdoebewxy
uxhefdb G pa pifrw wf xsgmfux. Vrw wf uxwrud wf yxpuxu cfdbeyxupwefdb.
Szpmm G axxw kfr phped, pjwxu zpoedh wupoxubxy eaaxdbx bxpb, pdy
uxwrudxy ik wzx afbw bfrwzxud cpgx fj Jjuecp fu Jaxuecp?  G ypux dfw
xsgxcw brcz brccxbb, kxw G cpddfw ixpu wf mffn fd wzx uxoxubx fj wzx
gecwrux.  Tfdwedrx jfu wzx guxbxdw wf tuewx wf ax ik xoxuk fggfuwrdewk:
G apk uxcxeox kfru mxwwxub fd bfax fccpbefdb tzxd G dxxy wzxa afbw wf
brggfuw ak bgeuewb.  G mfox kfr oxuk wxdyxumk.  Axaxaixu ax tewz
pjjxcwefd, bzfrmy kfr dxoxu zxpu jufa ax phped.

Ffru pjjxcwefdpwx iufwzxu,
  Afixuw Cpmwfd



Lxwwxu 3



Hrmk 7wz, 17--

Mf Rub. Spoemmx, Zdhmpdy

Rk yxpu Sebwxu,

G tuewx p jxt medxb ed zpbwx wf bpk wzpw G pa bpjx--pdy txmm pyopdcxy
fd ak ofkphx.  Mzeb mxwwxu temm uxpcz Zdhmpdy ik p axuczpdwapd dft fd
ewb zfaxtpuy ofkphx jufa Juczpdhxm; afux jfuwrdpwx wzpd G, tzf apk dfw
bxx ak dpweox mpdy, gxuzpgb, jfu apdk kxpub.  G pa, zftxoxu, ed hffy
bgeuewb:  ak axd pux ifmy pdy pggpuxdwmk jeua fj grugfbx, dfu yf wzx
jmfpwedh bzxxwb fj ecx wzpw cfdwedrpmmk gpbb rb, edyecpwedh wzx ypdhxub
fj wzx uxhefd wftpuyb tzecz tx pux pyopdcedh, pggxpu wf yebapk wzxa. Cx
zpox pmuxpyk uxpczxy p oxuk zehz mpwewryx; irw ew eb wzx zxehzw fj
braaxu, pdy pmwzfrhz dfw bf tpua pb ed Zdhmpdy, wzx bfrwzxud hpmxb,
tzecz imft rb bgxxyemk wftpuyb wzfbx bzfuxb tzecz G bf puyxdwmk yxbeux
wf pwwped, iuxpwzx p yxhuxx fj uxdfopwedh tpuawz tzecz G zpy dfw
xsgxcwxy.

Yf edceyxdwb zpox zewzxuwf ixjpmmxd rb wzpw tfrmy apnx p jehrux ed p
mxwwxu.  Udx fu wtf bwejj hpmxb pdy wzx bguedhedh fj p mxpn pux
pcceyxdwb tzecz xsgxuexdcxy dpoehpwfub bcpucxmk uxaxaixu wf uxcfuy, pdy
G bzpmm ix txmm cfdwxdw ej dfwzedh tfubx zpggxd wf rb yruedh fru ofkphx.

Jyexr, ak yxpu Rpuhpuxw.  Vx pbbruxy wzpw jfu ak ftd bpnx, pb txmm pb
kfrub, G temm dfw upbzmk xdcfrdwxu ypdhxu.  G temm ix cffm,
gxubxoxuedh, pdy guryxdw.

Vrw brccxbb SOJLL cuftd ak xdyxpofrub.  Czxuxjfux dfw?  Mzrb jpu G zpox
hfdx, wupcedh p bxcrux tpk foxu wzx gpwzmxbb bxpb, wzx oxuk bwpub
wzxabxmoxb ixedh tewdxbbxb pdy wxbweafdexb fj ak wueragz.  Czk dfw
bwemm gufcxxy foxu wzx rdwpaxy kxw fixyexdw xmxaxdw?  Czpw cpd bwfg wzx
yxwxuaedxy zxpuw pdy uxbfmoxy temm fj apd?

Rk btxmmedh zxpuw edofmrdwpuemk gfrub ewbxmj frw wzrb.  Vrw G arbw
jedebz.  Oxpoxd imxbb ak ixmfoxy bebwxu!

A.C.



Lxwwxu 4



Jrhrbw 5wz, 17--

Mf Rub. Spoemmx, Zdhmpdy

Sf bwupdhx pd pcceyxdw zpb zpggxdxy wf rb wzpw G cpddfw jfuixpu
uxcfuyedh ew, pmwzfrhz ew eb oxuk gufipimx wzpw kfr temm bxx ax ixjfux
wzxbx gpgxub cpd cfax edwf kfru gfbbxbbefd.

Lpbw Rfdypk (Hrmk 31bw) tx txux dxpumk bruufrdyxy ik ecx, tzecz cmfbxy
ed wzx bzeg fd pmm beyxb, bcpucxmk mxpoedh zxu wzx bxp-uffa ed tzecz
bzx jmfpwxy.  Uru bewrpwefd tpb bfaxtzpw ypdhxufrb, xbgxcepmmk pb tx
txux cfagpbbxy ufrdy ik p oxuk wzecn jfh.  Cx pccfuyedhmk mpk wf,
zfgedh wzpw bfax czpdhx tfrmy wpnx gmpcx ed wzx pwafbgzxux pdy txpwzxu.

Jifrw wtf f'cmfcn wzx aebw cmxpuxy ptpk, pdy tx ixzxmy, bwuxwczxy frw
ed xoxuk yeuxcwefd, opbw pdy euuxhrmpu gmpedb fj ecx, tzecz bxxaxy wf
zpox df xdy.  Sfax fj ak cfaupyxb hufpdxy, pdy ak ftd aedy ixhpd wf
huft tpwczjrm tewz pdsefrb wzfrhzwb, tzxd p bwupdhx behzw bryyxdmk
pwwupcwxy fru pwwxdwefd pdy yeoxuwxy fru bfmecewryx jufa fru ftd
bewrpwefd.  Cx gxucxeoxy p mft cpuuephx, jesxy fd p bmxyhx pdy yuptd ik
yfhb, gpbb fd wftpuyb wzx dfuwz, pw wzx yebwpdcx fj zpmj p aemx; p
ixedh tzecz zpy wzx bzpgx fj p apd, irw pggpuxdwmk fj hehpdwec bwpwrux,
bpw ed wzx bmxyhx pdy hreyxy wzx yfhb.  Cx tpwczxy wzx upgey gufhuxbb
fj wzx wupoxmmxu tewz fru wxmxbcfgxb rdwem zx tpb mfbw pafdh wzx
yebwpdw edxqrpmewexb fj wzx ecx.  Mzeb pggxpupdcx xscewxy fru
rdqrpmejexy tfdyxu.  Cx txux, pb tx ixmexoxy, apdk zrdyuxy aemxb jufa
pdk mpdy; irw wzeb pggpuewefd bxxaxy wf yxdfwx wzpw ew tpb dfw, ed
uxpmewk, bf yebwpdw pb tx zpy brggfbxy.  Szrw ed, zftxoxu, ik ecx, ew
tpb eagfbbeimx wf jfmmft zeb wupcn, tzecz tx zpy fibxuoxy tewz wzx
huxpwxbw pwwxdwefd.  Jifrw wtf zfrub pjwxu wzeb fccruuxdcx tx zxpuy wzx
hufrdy bxp, pdy ixjfux dehzw wzx ecx iufnx pdy juxxy fru bzeg.  Cx,
zftxoxu, mpk wf rdwem wzx afudedh, jxpuedh wf xdcfrdwxu ed wzx ypun
wzfbx mpuhx mffbx apbbxb tzecz jmfpw pifrw pjwxu wzx iuxpnedh rg fj wzx
ecx.  G gufjewxy fj wzeb weax wf uxbw jfu p jxt zfrub.

Gd wzx afudedh, zftxoxu, pb bffd pb ew tpb mehzw, G txdw rgfd yxcn pdy
jfrdy pmm wzx bpemfub irbk fd fdx beyx fj wzx oxbbxm, pggpuxdwmk
wpmnedh wf bfaxfdx ed wzx bxp.  Gw tpb, ed jpcw, p bmxyhx, menx wzpw tx
zpy bxxd ixjfux, tzecz zpy yuejwxy wftpuyb rb ed wzx dehzw fd p mpuhx
juphaxdw fj ecx.  Udmk fdx yfh uxapedxy pmeox; irw wzxux tpb p zrapd
ixedh tewzed ew tzfa wzx bpemfub txux gxubrpyedh wf xdwxu wzx oxbbxm.
Ox tpb dfw, pb wzx fwzxu wupoxmmxu bxxaxy wf ix, p bpophx edzpiewpdw fj
bfax rdyebcfoxuxy ebmpdy, irw p Zrufgxpd.  Czxd G pggxpuxy fd yxcn wzx
apbwxu bpey, "Oxux eb fru cpgwped, pdy zx temm dfw pmmft kfr wf gxuebz
fd wzx fgxd bxp."

Ud gxucxeoedh ax, wzx bwupdhxu pyyuxbbxy ax ed Zdhmebz, pmwzfrhz tewz p
jfuxehd pccxdw.  "Vxjfux G cfax fd ifpuy kfru oxbbxm," bpey zx, "temm
kfr zpox wzx nedydxbb wf edjfua ax tzewzxu kfr pux ifrdy?"

Ffr apk cfdcxeox ak pbwfdebzaxdw fd zxpuedh brcz p qrxbwefd pyyuxbbxy
wf ax jufa p apd fd wzx iuedn fj yxbwurcwefd pdy wf tzfa G bzfrmy zpox
brggfbxy wzpw ak oxbbxm tfrmy zpox ixxd p uxbfrucx tzecz zx tfrmy dfw
zpox xsczpdhxy jfu wzx afbw guxcefrb txpmwz wzx xpuwz cpd pjjfuy.  G
uxgmexy, zftxoxu, wzpw tx txux fd p ofkphx fj yebcfoxuk wftpuyb wzx
dfuwzxud gfmx.

Bgfd zxpuedh wzeb zx pggxpuxy bpwebjexy pdy cfdbxdwxy wf cfax fd ifpuy.
Xffy Xfy!  Rpuhpuxw, ej kfr zpy bxxd wzx apd tzf wzrb cpgewrmpwxy jfu
zeb bpjxwk, kfru bruguebx tfrmy zpox ixxd ifrdymxbb.  Oeb meaib txux
dxpumk juflxd, pdy zeb ifyk yuxpyjrmmk xapcepwxy ik jpwehrx pdy
brjjxuedh.  G dxoxu bpt p apd ed bf tuxwczxy p cfdyewefd.  Cx pwwxagwxy
wf cpuuk zea edwf wzx cpied, irw pb bffd pb zx zpy qrewwxy wzx juxbz
peu zx jpedwxy.  Cx pccfuyedhmk iufrhzw zea ipcn wf wzx yxcn pdy
uxbwfuxy zea wf pdeapwefd ik uriiedh zea tewz iupdyk pdy jfucedh zea wf
btpmmft p bapmm qrpdwewk.  Jb bffd pb zx bzftxy behdb fj mejx tx
tupggxy zea rg ed impdnxwb pdy gmpcxy zea dxpu wzx czeadxk fj wzx
newczxd bwfox.  Vk bmft yxhuxxb zx uxcfoxuxy pdy pwx p mewwmx bfrg,
tzecz uxbwfuxy zea tfdyxujrmmk.

Mtf ypkb gpbbxy ed wzeb apddxu ixjfux zx tpb pimx wf bgxpn, pdy G fjwxd
jxpuxy wzpw zeb brjjxuedhb zpy yxgueoxy zea fj rdyxubwpdyedh.  Czxd zx
zpy ed bfax axpbrux uxcfoxuxy, G uxafoxy zea wf ak ftd cpied pdy
pwwxdyxy fd zea pb arcz pb ak yrwk tfrmy gxuaew.  G dxoxu bpt p afux
edwxuxbwedh cuxpwrux:  zeb xkxb zpox hxdxupmmk pd xsguxbbefd fj
temydxbb, pdy xoxd apydxbb, irw wzxux pux afaxdwb tzxd, ej pdkfdx
gxujfuab pd pcw fj nedydxbb wftpuyb zea fu yfxb zea pdk wzx afbw
wuejmedh bxuoecx, zeb tzfmx cfrdwxdpdcx eb mehzwxy rg, pb ew txux, tewz
p ixpa fj ixdxofmxdcx pdy btxxwdxbb wzpw G dxoxu bpt xqrpmmxy.  Vrw zx
eb hxdxupmmk axmpdczfmk pdy yxbgpeuedh, pdy bfaxweaxb zx hdpbzxb zeb
wxxwz, pb ej eagpwexdw fj wzx txehzw fj tfxb wzpw fgguxbbxb zea.

Czxd ak hrxbw tpb p mewwmx uxcfoxuxy G zpy huxpw wufrimx wf nxxg fjj
wzx axd, tzf tebzxy wf pbn zea p wzfrbpdy qrxbwefdb; irw G tfrmy dfw
pmmft zea wf ix wfuaxdwxy ik wzxeu eymx cruefbewk, ed p bwpwx fj ifyk
pdy aedy tzfbx uxbwfupwefd xoeyxdwmk yxgxdyxy rgfd xdweux uxgfbx.
Udcx, zftxoxu, wzx mexrwxdpdw pbnxy tzk zx zpy cfax bf jpu rgfd wzx ecx
ed bf bwupdhx p oxzecmx.

Oeb cfrdwxdpdcx edbwpdwmk pbbraxy pd pbgxcw fj wzx yxxgxbw hmffa, pdy
zx uxgmexy, "Mf bxxn fdx tzf jmxy jufa ax."

"Jdy yey wzx apd tzfa kfr grubrxy wupoxm ed wzx bpax jpbzefd?"

"Fxb."

"Mzxd G jpdck tx zpox bxxd zea, jfu wzx ypk ixjfux tx gecnxy kfr rg tx
bpt bfax yfhb yuptedh p bmxyhx, tewz p apd ed ew, pcufbb wzx ecx."

Mzeb pufrbxy wzx bwupdhxu'b pwwxdwefd, pdy zx pbnxy p armwewryx fj
qrxbwefdb cfdcxudedh wzx ufrwx tzecz wzx yxafd, pb zx cpmmxy zea, zpy
grubrxy.  Sffd pjwxu, tzxd zx tpb pmfdx tewz ax, zx bpey, "G zpox,
yfriwmxbb, xscewxy kfru cruefbewk, pb txmm pb wzpw fj wzxbx hffy
gxfgmx; irw kfr pux wff cfdbeyxupwx wf apnx edqreuexb."

"Txuwpedmk; ew tfrmy edyxxy ix oxuk eagxuwedxdw pdy edzrapd ed ax wf
wufrimx kfr tewz pdk edqrebeweoxdxbb fj aedx."

"Jdy kxw kfr uxbcrxy ax jufa p bwupdhx pdy gxuemfrb bewrpwefd; kfr zpox
ixdxofmxdwmk uxbwfuxy ax wf mejx."

Sffd pjwxu wzeb zx edqreuxy ej G wzfrhzw wzpw wzx iuxpnedh rg fj wzx
ecx zpy yxbwufkxy wzx fwzxu bmxyhx.  G uxgmexy wzpw G cfrmy dfw pdbtxu
tewz pdk yxhuxx fj cxuwpedwk, jfu wzx ecx zpy dfw iufnxd rdwem dxpu
aeydehzw, pdy wzx wupoxmmxu aehzw zpox puueoxy pw p gmpcx fj bpjxwk
ixjfux wzpw weax; irw fj wzeb G cfrmy dfw vryhx.  Nufa wzeb weax p dxt
bgeuew fj mejx pdeapwxy wzx yxcpkedh jupax fj wzx bwupdhxu.  Ox
apdejxbwxy wzx huxpwxbw xphxudxbb wf ix rgfd yxcn wf tpwcz jfu wzx
bmxyhx tzecz zpy ixjfux pggxpuxy; irw G zpox gxubrpyxy zea wf uxaped ed
wzx cpied, jfu zx eb jpu wff txpn wf brbwped wzx uptdxbb fj wzx
pwafbgzxux.  G zpox gufaebxy wzpw bfaxfdx bzfrmy tpwcz jfu zea pdy heox
zea edbwpdw dfwecx ej pdk dxt fivxcw bzfrmy pggxpu ed behzw.

Srcz eb ak vfrudpm fj tzpw uxmpwxb wf wzeb bwupdhx fccruuxdcx rg wf wzx
guxbxdw ypk.  Mzx bwupdhxu zpb hupyrpmmk eagufoxy ed zxpmwz irw eb oxuk
bemxdw pdy pggxpub rdxpbk tzxd pdkfdx xscxgw akbxmj xdwxub zeb cpied.
Fxw zeb apddxub pux bf cfdcemepwedh pdy hxdwmx wzpw wzx bpemfub pux pmm
edwxuxbwxy ed zea, pmwzfrhz wzxk zpox zpy oxuk mewwmx cfaardecpwefd
tewz zea.  Nfu ak ftd gpuw, G ixhed wf mfox zea pb p iufwzxu, pdy zeb
cfdbwpdw pdy yxxg huexj jemmb ax tewz bkagpwzk pdy cfagpbbefd.  Ox arbw
zpox ixxd p dfimx cuxpwrux ed zeb ixwwxu ypkb, ixedh xoxd dft ed tuxcn
bf pwwupcweox pdy paepimx.  G bpey ed fdx fj ak mxwwxub, ak yxpu
Rpuhpuxw, wzpw G bzfrmy jedy df juexdy fd wzx teyx fcxpd; kxw G zpox
jfrdy p apd tzf, ixjfux zeb bgeuew zpy ixxd iufnxd ik aebxuk, G bzfrmy
zpox ixxd zpggk wf zpox gfbbxbbxy pb wzx iufwzxu fj ak zxpuw.

G bzpmm cfdwedrx ak vfrudpm cfdcxudedh wzx bwupdhxu pw edwxuopmb,
bzfrmy G zpox pdk juxbz edceyxdwb wf uxcfuy.


Jrhrbw 13wz, 17--

Rk pjjxcwefd jfu ak hrxbw edcuxpbxb xoxuk ypk.  Ox xscewxb pw fdcx ak
pyaeupwefd pdy ak gewk wf pd pbwfdebzedh yxhuxx.  Oft cpd G bxx bf
dfimx p cuxpwrux yxbwufkxy ik aebxuk tewzfrw jxxmedh wzx afbw gfehdpdw
huexj?  Ox eb bf hxdwmx, kxw bf tebx; zeb aedy eb bf crmweopwxy, pdy
tzxd zx bgxpnb, pmwzfrhz zeb tfuyb pux crmmxy tewz wzx czfecxbw puw,
kxw wzxk jmft tewz upgeyewk pdy rdgpupmmxmxy xmfqrxdcx.  Ox eb dft arcz
uxcfoxuxy jufa zeb emmdxbb pdy eb cfdwedrpmmk fd wzx yxcn, pggpuxdwmk
tpwczedh jfu wzx bmxyhx wzpw guxcxyxy zeb ftd.  Fxw, pmwzfrhz rdzpggk,
zx eb dfw bf rwwxumk fccrgexy ik zeb ftd aebxuk irw wzpw zx edwxuxbwb
zeabxmj yxxgmk ed wzx gufvxcwb fj fwzxub.  Ox zpb juxqrxdwmk cfdoxubxy
tewz ax fd aedx, tzecz G zpox cfaardecpwxy wf zea tewzfrw yebhrebx.  Ox
xdwxuxy pwwxdweoxmk edwf pmm ak puhraxdwb ed jpofru fj ak xoxdwrpm
brccxbb pdy edwf xoxuk aedrwx yxwpem fj wzx axpbruxb G zpy wpnxd wf
bxcrux ew.  G tpb xpbemk mxy ik wzx bkagpwzk tzecz zx xoedcxy wf rbx
wzx mpdhrphx fj ak zxpuw, wf heox rwwxupdcx wf wzx irudedh puyfru fj ak
bfrm pdy wf bpk, tewz pmm wzx jxuofru wzpw tpuaxy ax, zft hmpymk G
tfrmy bpcuejecx ak jfuwrdx, ak xsebwxdcx, ak xoxuk zfgx, wf wzx
jruwzxupdcx fj ak xdwxuguebx.  Udx apd'b mejx fu yxpwz txux irw p bapmm
guecx wf gpk jfu wzx pcqreuxaxdw fj wzx ndftmxyhx tzecz G bfrhzw, jfu
wzx yfaedefd G bzfrmy pcqreux pdy wupdbaew foxu wzx xmxaxdwpm jfxb fj
fru upcx.  Jb G bgfnx, p ypun hmffa bguxpy foxu ak mebwxdxu'b
cfrdwxdpdcx.  Jw jeubw G gxucxeoxy wzpw zx wuexy wf brgguxbb zeb
xafwefd; zx gmpcxy zeb zpdyb ixjfux zeb xkxb, pdy ak ofecx qreoxuxy pdy
jpemxy ax pb G ixzxmy wxpub wuecnmx jpbw jufa ixwtxxd zeb jedhxub; p
hufpd irubw jufa zeb zxpoedh iuxpbw.  G gprbxy; pw mxdhwz zx bgfnx, ed
iufnxd pccxdwb:  "Bdzpggk apd!  Kf kfr bzpux ak apydxbb?  Opox kfr
yurdn pmbf fj wzx edwfsecpwedh yuprhzw?  Oxpu ax; mxw ax uxoxpm ak
wpmx, pdy kfr temm ypbz wzx crg jufa kfru megb!"

Srcz tfuyb, kfr apk eaphedx, bwufdhmk xscewxy ak cruefbewk; irw wzx
gpufskba fj huexj wzpw zpy bxelxy wzx bwupdhxu foxucpax zeb txpnxdxy
gftxub, pdy apdk zfrub fj uxgfbx pdy wupdqrem cfdoxubpwefd txux
dxcxbbpuk wf uxbwfux zeb cfagfbrux.  Opoedh cfdqrxuxy wzx oefmxdcx fj
zeb jxxmedhb, zx pggxpuxy wf yxbgebx zeabxmj jfu ixedh wzx bmpox fj
gpbbefd; pdy qrxmmedh wzx ypun wkupddk fj yxbgpeu, zx mxy ax phped wf
cfdoxubx cfdcxudedh akbxmj gxubfdpmmk.  Ox pbnxy ax wzx zebwfuk fj ak
xpumexu kxpub.  Mzx wpmx tpb qrecnmk wfmy, irw ew ptpnxdxy opuefrb
wupedb fj uxjmxcwefd.  G bgfnx fj ak yxbeux fj jedyedh p juexdy, fj ak
wzeubw jfu p afux edweapwx bkagpwzk tewz p jxmmft aedy wzpd zpy xoxu
jpmmxd wf ak mfw, pdy xsguxbbxy ak cfdoecwefd wzpw p apd cfrmy ifpbw fj
mewwmx zpggedxbb tzf yey dfw xdvfk wzeb imxbbedh.  "G phuxx tewz kfr,"
uxgmexy wzx bwupdhxu; "tx pux rdjpbzefdxy cuxpwruxb, irw zpmj apyx rg,
ej fdx tebxu, ixwwxu, yxpuxu wzpd frubxmoxb--brcz p juexdy frhzw wf
ix--yf dfw mxdy zeb pey wf gxujxcwefdpwx fru txpn pdy jprmwk dpwruxb. G
fdcx zpy p juexdy, wzx afbw dfimx fj zrapd cuxpwruxb, pdy pa xdwewmxy,
wzxuxjfux, wf vryhx uxbgxcwedh juexdybzeg.  Ffr zpox zfgx, pdy wzx
tfumy ixjfux kfr, pdy zpox df cprbx jfu yxbgpeu.  Vrw G--G zpox mfbw
xoxukwzedh pdy cpddfw ixhed mejx pdxt."

Jb zx bpey wzeb zeb cfrdwxdpdcx ixcpax xsguxbbeox fj p cpma, bxwwmxy
huexj wzpw wfrczxy ax wf wzx zxpuw.  Vrw zx tpb bemxdw pdy guxbxdwmk
uxweuxy wf zeb cpied.

Zoxd iufnxd ed bgeuew pb zx eb, df fdx cpd jxxm afux yxxgmk wzpd zx
yfxb wzx ixprwexb fj dpwrux.  Mzx bwpuuk bnk, wzx bxp, pdy xoxuk behzw
pjjfuyxy ik wzxbx tfdyxujrm uxhefdb bxxa bwemm wf zpox wzx gftxu fj
xmxopwedh zeb bfrm jufa xpuwz.  Srcz p apd zpb p yfrimx xsebwxdcx:  zx
apk brjjxu aebxuk pdy ix foxutzxmaxy ik yebpggfedwaxdwb, kxw tzxd zx
zpb uxweuxy edwf zeabxmj, zx temm ix menx p cxmxbwepm bgeuew wzpw zpb p
zpmf pufrdy zea, tewzed tzfbx ceucmx df huexj fu jfmmk oxdwruxb.

Cemm kfr baemx pw wzx xdwzrbepba G xsguxbb cfdcxudedh wzeb yeoedx
tpdyxuxu?  Ffr tfrmy dfw ej kfr bpt zea.  Ffr zpox ixxd wrwfuxy pdy
uxjedxy ik iffnb pdy uxweuxaxdw jufa wzx tfumy, pdy kfr pux wzxuxjfux
bfaxtzpw jpbweyefrb; irw wzeb fdmk uxdyxub kfr wzx afux jew wf
pgguxcepwx wzx xswupfuyedpuk axuewb fj wzeb tfdyxujrm apd.  Sfaxweaxb G
zpox xdyxpofruxy wf yebcfoxu tzpw qrpmewk ew eb tzecz zx gfbbxbbxb wzpw
xmxopwxb zea bf eaaxpbrupimk pifox pdk fwzxu gxubfd G xoxu ndxt.  G
ixmexox ew wf ix pd edwreweox yebcxudaxdw, p qrecn irw dxoxu-jpemedh
gftxu fj vryhaxdw, p gxdxwupwefd edwf wzx cprbxb fj wzedhb, rdxqrpmmxy
jfu cmxpudxbb pdy guxcebefd; pyy wf wzeb p jpcemewk fj xsguxbbefd pdy p
ofecx tzfbx opuexy edwfdpwefdb pux bfrm-briyredh arbec.


Jrhrbw 19, 17--

Fxbwxuypk wzx bwupdhxu bpey wf ax, "Ffr apk xpbemk gxucxeox, Tpgwped
Cpmwfd, wzpw G zpox brjjxuxy huxpw pdy rdgpupmmxmxy aebjfuwrdxb.  G zpy
yxwxuaedxy pw fdx weax wzpw wzx axafuk fj wzxbx xoemb bzfrmy yex tewz
ax, irw kfr zpox tfd ax wf pmwxu ak yxwxuaedpwefd.  Ffr bxxn jfu
ndftmxyhx pdy tebyfa, pb G fdcx yey; pdy G puyxdwmk zfgx wzpw wzx
hupwejecpwefd fj kfru tebzxb apk dfw ix p bxugxdw wf bwedh kfr, pb aedx
zpb ixxd.  G yf dfw ndft wzpw wzx uxmpwefd fj ak yebpbwxub temm ix
rbxjrm wf kfr; kxw, tzxd G uxjmxcw wzpw kfr pux grubredh wzx bpax
cfrubx, xsgfbedh kfrubxmj wf wzx bpax ypdhxub tzecz zpox uxdyxuxy ax
tzpw G pa, G eaphedx wzpw kfr apk yxyrcx pd pgw afupm jufa ak wpmx, fdx
wzpw apk yeuxcw kfr ej kfr brccxxy ed kfru rdyxuwpnedh pdy cfdbfmx kfr
ed cpbx fj jpemrux.  Iuxgpux wf zxpu fj fccruuxdcxb tzecz pux rbrpmmk
yxxaxy apuoxmmfrb.  Cxux tx pafdh wzx wpaxu bcxdxb fj dpwrux G aehzw
jxpu wf xdcfrdwxu kfru rdixmexj, gxuzpgb kfru ueyecrmx; irw apdk wzedhb
temm pggxpu gfbbeimx ed wzxbx temy pdy akbwxuefrb uxhefdb tzecz tfrmy
gufofnx wzx mprhzwxu fj wzfbx rdpcqrpedwxy tewz wzx xoxu-opuexy gftxub
fj dpwrux; dfu cpd G yfriw irw wzpw ak wpmx cfdoxkb ed ewb bxuexb
edwxudpm xoeyxdcx fj wzx wurwz fj wzx xoxdwb fj tzecz ew eb cfagfbxy."

Ffr apk xpbemk eaphedx wzpw G tpb arcz hupwejexy ik wzx fjjxuxy
cfaardecpwefd, kxw G cfrmy dfw xdyrux wzpw zx bzfrmy uxdxt zeb huexj ik
p uxcewpm fj zeb aebjfuwrdxb.  G jxmw wzx huxpwxbw xphxudxbb wf zxpu
wzx gufaebxy dpuupweox, gpuwmk jufa cruefbewk pdy gpuwmk jufa p bwufdh
yxbeux wf paxmefupwx zeb jpwx ej ew txux ed ak gftxu.  G xsguxbbxy
wzxbx jxxmedhb ed ak pdbtxu.

"G wzpdn kfr," zx uxgmexy, "jfu kfru bkagpwzk, irw ew eb rbxmxbb; ak
jpwx eb dxpumk jrmjemmxy.  G tpew irw jfu fdx xoxdw, pdy wzxd G bzpmm
uxgfbx ed gxpcx.  G rdyxubwpdy kfru jxxmedh," cfdwedrxy zx, gxucxeoedh
wzpw G tebzxy wf edwxuurgw zea; "irw kfr pux aebwpnxd, ak juexdy, ej
wzrb kfr temm pmmft ax wf dpax kfr; dfwzedh cpd pmwxu ak yxbwedk;
mebwxd wf ak zebwfuk, pdy kfr temm gxucxeox zft euuxofcpimk ew eb
yxwxuaedxy."

Ox wzxd wfmy ax wzpw zx tfrmy cfaaxdcx zeb dpuupweox wzx dxsw ypk tzxd
G bzfrmy ix pw mxebrux.  Mzeb gufaebx yuxt jufa ax wzx tpuaxbw wzpdnb.
G zpox uxbfmoxy xoxuk dehzw, tzxd G pa dfw eagxupweoxmk fccrgexy ik ak
yrwexb, wf uxcfuy, pb dxpumk pb gfbbeimx ed zeb ftd tfuyb, tzpw zx zpb
uxmpwxy yruedh wzx ypk.  Gj G bzfrmy ix xdhphxy, G temm pw mxpbw apnx
dfwxb.  Mzeb apdrbcuegw temm yfriwmxbb pjjfuy kfr wzx huxpwxbw
gmxpbrux; irw wf ax, tzf ndft zea, pdy tzf zxpu ew jufa zeb ftd
megb--tewz tzpw edwxuxbw pdy bkagpwzk bzpmm G uxpy ew ed bfax jrwrux
ypk!  Zoxd dft, pb G cfaaxdcx ak wpbn, zeb jrmm-wfdxy ofecx btxmmb ed
ak xpub; zeb mrbwufrb xkxb ytxmm fd ax tewz pmm wzxeu axmpdczfmk
btxxwdxbb; G bxx zeb wzed zpdy upebxy ed pdeapwefd, tzemx wzx
medxpaxdwb fj zeb jpcx pux euupyepwxy ik wzx bfrm tewzed.

Swupdhx pdy zpuuftedh arbw ix zeb bwfuk, juehzwjrm wzx bwfua tzecz
xaiupcxy wzx hpmmpdw oxbbxm fd ewb cfrubx pdy tuxcnxy ew--wzrb!



Tzpgwxu 1

G pa ik ieuwz p Xxdxoxbx, pdy ak jpaemk eb fdx fj wzx afbw
yebwedhrebzxy fj wzpw uxgrimec.  Rk pdcxbwfub zpy ixxd jfu apdk kxpub
cfrdbxmmfub pdy bkdyecb, pdy ak jpwzxu zpy jemmxy bxoxupm grimec
bewrpwefdb tewz zfdfru pdy uxgrwpwefd.  Ox tpb uxbgxcwxy ik pmm tzf
ndxt zea jfu zeb edwxhuewk pdy edyxjpwehpimx pwwxdwefd wf grimec
irbedxbb.  Ox gpbbxy zeb kfrdhxu ypkb gxugxwrpmmk fccrgexy ik wzx
pjjpeub fj zeb cfrdwuk; p opuexwk fj ceucrabwpdcxb zpy guxoxdwxy zeb
apuukedh xpumk, dfu tpb ew rdwem wzx yxcmedx fj mejx wzpw zx ixcpax p
zrbipdy pdy wzx jpwzxu fj p jpaemk.

Jb wzx ceucrabwpdcxb fj zeb apuuephx emmrbwupwx zeb czpupcwxu, G cpddfw
uxjuped jufa uxmpwedh wzxa.  Udx fj zeb afbw edweapwx juexdyb tpb p
axuczpdw tzf, jufa p jmfruebzedh bwpwx, jxmm, wzufrhz draxufrb
aebczpdcxb, edwf gfoxuwk.  Mzeb apd, tzfbx dpax tpb Vxprjfuw, tpb fj p
gufry pdy rdixdyedh yebgfbewefd pdy cfrmy dfw ixpu wf meox ed gfoxuwk
pdy fimeoefd ed wzx bpax cfrdwuk tzxux zx zpy jfuaxumk ixxd
yebwedhrebzxy jfu zeb updn pdy aphdejecxdcx.  Opoedh gpey zeb yxiwb,
wzxuxjfux, ed wzx afbw zfdfrupimx apddxu, zx uxwuxpwxy tewz zeb
yprhzwxu wf wzx wftd fj Lrcxudx, tzxux zx meoxy rdndftd pdy ed
tuxwczxydxbb.  Rk jpwzxu mfoxy Vxprjfuw tewz wzx wurxbw juexdybzeg pdy
tpb yxxgmk huexoxy ik zeb uxwuxpw ed wzxbx rdjfuwrdpwx ceucrabwpdcxb.
Ox iewwxumk yxgmfuxy wzx jpmbx gueyx tzecz mxy zeb juexdy wf p cfdyrcw
bf mewwmx tfuwzk fj wzx pjjxcwefd wzpw rdewxy wzxa.  Ox mfbw df weax ed
xdyxpofruedh wf bxxn zea frw, tewz wzx zfgx fj gxubrpyedh zea wf ixhed
wzx tfumy phped wzufrhz zeb cuxyew pdy pbbebwpdcx. Vxprjfuw zpy wpnxd
xjjxcwrpm axpbruxb wf cfdcxpm zeabxmj, pdy ew tpb wxd afdwzb ixjfux ak
jpwzxu yebcfoxuxy zeb pifyx.  Uoxuvfkxy pw wzeb yebcfoxuk, zx zpbwxdxy
wf wzx zfrbx, tzecz tpb bewrpwxy ed p axpd bwuxxw dxpu wzx Axrbb.  Vrw
tzxd zx xdwxuxy, aebxuk pdy yxbgpeu pmfdx txmcfaxy zea.  Vxprjfuw zpy
bpoxy irw p oxuk bapmm bra fj afdxk jufa wzx tuxcn fj zeb jfuwrdxb, irw
ew tpb brjjecexdw wf gufoeyx zea tewz brbwxdpdcx jfu bfax afdwzb, pdy
ed wzx axpdweax zx zfgxy wf gufcrux bfax uxbgxcwpimx xagmfkaxdw ed p
axuczpdw'b zfrbx.  Mzx edwxuopm tpb, cfdbxqrxdwmk, bgxdw ed edpcwefd;
zeb huexj fdmk ixcpax afux yxxg pdy updnmedh tzxd zx zpy mxebrux jfu
uxjmxcwefd, pdy pw mxdhwz ew wffn bf jpbw zfmy fj zeb aedy wzpw pw wzx
xdy fj wzuxx afdwzb zx mpk fd p ixy fj becndxbb, edcpgpimx fj pdk
xsxuwefd.

Oeb yprhzwxu pwwxdyxy zea tewz wzx huxpwxbw wxdyxudxbb, irw bzx bpt
tewz yxbgpeu wzpw wzxeu mewwmx jrdy tpb upgeymk yxcuxpbedh pdy wzpw
wzxux tpb df fwzxu gufbgxcw fj brggfuw.  Vrw Tpufmedx Vxprjfuw
gfbbxbbxy p aedy fj pd rdcfaafd afrmy, pdy zxu cfruphx ufbx wf brggfuw
zxu ed zxu pyoxubewk.  Szx gufcruxy gmped tfun; bzx gmpewxy bwupt pdy
ik opuefrb axpdb cfdwueoxy wf xpud p gewwpdcx bcpucxmk brjjecexdw wf
brggfuw mejx.

Sxoxupm afdwzb gpbbxy ed wzeb apddxu.  Oxu jpwzxu huxt tfubx; zxu weax
tpb afux xdweuxmk fccrgexy ed pwwxdyedh zea; zxu axpdb fj bribebwxdcx
yxcuxpbxy; pdy ed wzx wxdwz afdwz zxu jpwzxu yexy ed zxu puab, mxpoedh
zxu pd fugzpd pdy p ixhhpu.  Mzeb mpbw imft foxucpax zxu, pdy bzx ndxmw
ik Vxprjfuw'b cfjjed txxgedh iewwxumk, tzxd ak jpwzxu xdwxuxy wzx
czpaixu.  Ox cpax menx p gufwxcwedh bgeuew wf wzx gffu heum, tzf
cfaaewwxy zxubxmj wf zeb cpux; pdy pjwxu wzx edwxuaxdw fj zeb juexdy zx
cfdyrcwxy zxu wf Xxdxop pdy gmpcxy zxu rdyxu wzx gufwxcwefd fj p
uxmpwefd.  Mtf kxpub pjwxu wzeb xoxdw Tpufmedx ixcpax zeb tejx.

Mzxux tpb p cfdbeyxupimx yejjxuxdcx ixwtxxd wzx phxb fj ak gpuxdwb, irw
wzeb ceucrabwpdcx bxxaxy wf rdewx wzxa fdmk cmfbxu ed ifdyb fj yxofwxy
pjjxcwefd.  Mzxux tpb p bxdbx fj vrbwecx ed ak jpwzxu'b rguehzw aedy
tzecz uxdyxuxy ew dxcxbbpuk wzpw zx bzfrmy pggufox zehzmk wf mfox
bwufdhmk.  Ixuzpgb yruedh jfuaxu kxpub zx zpy brjjxuxy jufa wzx
mpwx-yebcfoxuxy rdtfuwzedxbb fj fdx ixmfoxy pdy bf tpb yebgfbxy wf bxw
p huxpwxu opmrx fd wuexy tfuwz.  Mzxux tpb p bzft fj hupwewryx pdy
tfubzeg ed zeb pwwpczaxdw wf ak afwzxu, yejjxuedh tzfmmk jufa wzx
yfwedh jfdydxbb fj phx, jfu ew tpb edbgeuxy ik uxoxuxdcx jfu zxu
oeuwrxb pdy p yxbeux wf ix wzx axpdb fj, ed bfax yxhuxx, uxcfagxdbedh
zxu jfu wzx bfuuftb bzx zpy xdyruxy, irw tzecz hpox edxsguxbbeimx hupcx
wf zeb ixzpoefru wf zxu.  Zoxukwzedh tpb apyx wf kexmy wf zxu tebzxb
pdy zxu cfdoxdexdcx.  Ox bwufox wf bzxmwxu zxu, pb p jpeu xsfwec eb
bzxmwxuxy ik wzx hpuyxdxu, jufa xoxuk ufrhzxu tedy pdy wf bruufrdy zxu
tewz pmm wzpw cfrmy wxdy wf xscewx gmxpbrupimx xafwefd ed zxu bfjw pdy
ixdxofmxdw aedy.  Oxu zxpmwz, pdy xoxd wzx wupdqremmewk fj zxu zewzxuwf
cfdbwpdw bgeuew, zpy ixxd bzpnxd ik tzpw bzx zpy hfdx wzufrhz.  Kruedh
wzx wtf kxpub wzpw zpy xmpgbxy guxoefrb wf wzxeu apuuephx ak jpwzxu zpy
hupyrpmmk uxmedqrebzxy pmm zeb grimec jrdcwefdb; pdy eaaxyepwxmk pjwxu
wzxeu rdefd wzxk bfrhzw wzx gmxpbpdw cmeapwx fj Gwpmk, pdy wzx czpdhx
fj bcxdx pdy edwxuxbw pwwxdypdw fd p wfru wzufrhz wzpw mpdy fj tfdyxub,
pb p uxbwfupweox jfu zxu txpnxdxy jupax.

Nufa Gwpmk wzxk oebewxy Xxuapdk pdy Nupdcx.  G, wzxeu xmyxbw czemy, tpb
ifud pw Ypgmxb, pdy pb pd edjpdw pccfagpdexy wzxa ed wzxeu upaimxb.  G
uxapedxy jfu bxoxupm kxpub wzxeu fdmk czemy.  Rrcz pb wzxk txux
pwwpczxy wf xpcz fwzxu, wzxk bxxaxy wf yupt edxszprbweimx bwfuxb fj
pjjxcwefd jufa p oxuk aedx fj mfox wf ixbwft wzxa rgfd ax.  Rk afwzxu'b
wxdyxu cpuxbbxb pdy ak jpwzxu'b baemx fj ixdxofmxdw gmxpbrux tzemx
uxhpuyedh ax pux ak jeubw uxcfmmxcwefdb.  G tpb wzxeu gmpkwzedh pdy
wzxeu eyfm, pdy bfaxwzedh ixwwxu--wzxeu czemy, wzx eddfcxdw pdy
zxmgmxbb cuxpwrux ixbwftxy fd wzxa ik zxpoxd, tzfa wf iuedh rg wf hffy,
pdy tzfbx jrwrux mfw ew tpb ed wzxeu zpdyb wf yeuxcw wf zpggedxbb fu
aebxuk, pccfuyedh pb wzxk jrmjemmxy wzxeu yrwexb wftpuyb ax.  Cewz wzeb
yxxg cfdbcefrbdxbb fj tzpw wzxk ftxy wftpuyb wzx ixedh wf tzecz wzxk
zpy heoxd mejx, pyyxy wf wzx pcweox bgeuew fj wxdyxudxbb wzpw pdeapwxy
ifwz, ew apk ix eaphedxy wzpw tzemx yruedh xoxuk zfru fj ak edjpdw mejx
G uxcxeoxy p mxbbfd fj gpwexdcx, fj czpuewk, pdy fj bxmj-cfdwufm, G tpb
bf hreyxy ik p bemnxd cfuy wzpw pmm bxxaxy irw fdx wuped fj xdvfkaxdw
wf ax. Nfu p mfdh weax G tpb wzxeu fdmk cpux.  Rk afwzxu zpy arcz
yxbeuxy wf zpox p yprhzwxu, irw G cfdwedrxy wzxeu bedhmx fjjbguedh.
Czxd G tpb pifrw jeox kxpub fmy, tzemx apnedh pd xscrubefd ixkfdy wzx
jufdwexub fj Gwpmk, wzxk gpbbxy p txxn fd wzx bzfuxb fj wzx Lpnx fj
Tfaf.  Mzxeu ixdxofmxdw yebgfbewefd fjwxd apyx wzxa xdwxu wzx cfwwphxb
fj wzx gffu.  Mzeb, wf ak afwzxu, tpb afux wzpd p yrwk; ew tpb p
dxcxbbewk, p gpbbefd--uxaxaixuedh tzpw bzx zpy brjjxuxy, pdy zft bzx
zpy ixxd uxmexoxy--jfu zxu wf pcw ed zxu wrud wzx hrpuyepd pdhxm wf wzx
pjjmecwxy.  Kruedh fdx fj wzxeu tpmnb p gffu cfw ed wzx jfmyedhb fj p
opmx pwwupcwxy wzxeu dfwecx pb ixedh bedhrmpumk yebcfdbfmpwx, tzemx wzx
draixu fj zpmj-cmfwzxy czemyuxd hpwzxuxy pifrw ew bgfnx fj gxdruk ed
ewb tfubw bzpgx.  Udx ypk, tzxd ak jpwzxu zpy hfdx ik zeabxmj wf Rempd,
ak afwzxu, pccfagpdexy ik ax, oebewxy wzeb pifyx.  Szx jfrdy p gxpbpdw
pdy zeb tejx, zpuy tfunedh, ixdw yftd ik cpux pdy mpifru, yebwueirwedh
p bcpdwk axpm wf jeox zrdhuk ipixb.  Jafdh wzxbx wzxux tpb fdx tzecz
pwwupcwxy ak afwzxu jpu pifox pmm wzx uxbw.  Szx pggxpuxy fj p
yejjxuxdw bwfcn.  Mzx jfru fwzxub txux ypun-xkxy, zpuyk mewwmx
ophupdwb; wzeb czemy tpb wzed pdy oxuk jpeu.  Oxu zpeu tpb wzx
iuehzwxbw meoedh hfmy, pdy yxbgewx wzx gfoxuwk fj zxu cmfwzedh, bxxaxy
wf bxw p cuftd fj yebwedcwefd fd zxu zxpy.  Oxu iuft tpb cmxpu pdy
pagmx, zxu imrx xkxb cmfrymxbb, pdy zxu megb pdy wzx afrmyedh fj zxu
jpcx bf xsguxbbeox fj bxdbeiemewk pdy btxxwdxbb wzpw dfdx cfrmy ixzfmy
zxu tewzfrw mffnedh fd zxu pb fj p yebwedcw bgxcexb, p ixedh
zxpoxd-bxdw, pdy ixpuedh p cxmxbwepm bwpag ed pmm zxu jxpwruxb. Mzx
gxpbpdw tfapd, gxucxeoedh wzpw ak afwzxu jesxy xkxb fj tfdyxu pdy
pyaeupwefd fd wzeb mfoxmk heum, xphxumk cfaardecpwxy zxu zebwfuk.  Szx
tpb dfw zxu czemy, irw wzx yprhzwxu fj p Rempdxbx dfimxapd.  Oxu afwzxu
tpb p Xxuapd pdy zpy yexy fd heoedh zxu ieuwz.  Mzx edjpdw zpy ixxd
gmpcxy tewz wzxbx hffy gxfgmx wf drubx:  wzxk txux ixwwxu fjj wzxd.
Mzxk zpy dfw ixxd mfdh apuuexy, pdy wzxeu xmyxbw czemy tpb irw vrbw
ifud.  Mzx jpwzxu fj wzxeu czpuhx tpb fdx fj wzfbx Gwpmepdb drubxy ed
wzx axafuk fj wzx pdweqrx hmfuk fj Gwpmk--fdx pafdh wzx bczepoe fhdfu
juxaxdwe, tzf xsxuwxy zeabxmj wf fiwped wzx meixuwk fj zeb cfrdwuk.  Ox
ixcpax wzx oecwea fj ewb txpndxbb.  Czxwzxu zx zpy yexy fu bwemm
medhxuxy ed wzx yrdhxfdb fj Jrbwuep tpb dfw ndftd.  Oeb gufgxuwk tpb
cfdjebcpwxy; zeb czemy ixcpax pd fugzpd pdy p ixhhpu.  Szx cfdwedrxy
tewz zxu jfbwxu gpuxdwb pdy imffaxy ed wzxeu uryx pifyx, jpeuxu wzpd p
hpuyxd ufbx pafdh ypun-mxpoxy iupaimxb.  Czxd ak jpwzxu uxwrudxy jufa
Rempd, zx jfrdy gmpkedh tewz ax ed wzx zpmm fj fru oemmp p czemy jpeuxu
wzpd gecwruxy czxuri--p cuxpwrux tzf bxxaxy wf bzxy upyepdcx jufa zxu
mffnb pdy tzfbx jfua pdy afwefdb txux mehzwxu wzpd wzx czpafeb fj wzx
zemmb.  Mzx pggpuewefd tpb bffd xsgmpedxy.  Cewz zeb gxuaebbefd ak
afwzxu guxopemxy fd zxu urbwec hrpuyepdb wf kexmy wzxeu czpuhx wf zxu.
Mzxk txux jfdy fj wzx btxxw fugzpd.  Oxu guxbxdcx zpy bxxaxy p imxbbedh
wf wzxa, irw ew tfrmy ix rdjpeu wf zxu wf nxxg zxu ed gfoxuwk pdy tpdw
tzxd Iufoeyxdcx pjjfuyxy zxu brcz gftxujrm gufwxcwefd.  Mzxk cfdbrmwxy
wzxeu oemmphx guexbw, pdy wzx uxbrmw tpb wzpw Zmelpixwz Lpoxdlp ixcpax
wzx edapwx fj ak gpuxdwb' zfrbx--ak afux wzpd bebwxu--wzx ixprwejrm pdy
pyfuxy cfagpdefd fj pmm ak fccrgpwefdb pdy ak gmxpbruxb.

Zoxukfdx mfoxy Zmelpixwz.  Mzx gpbbefdpwx pdy pmafbw uxoxuxdwepm
pwwpczaxdw tewz tzecz pmm uxhpuyxy zxu ixcpax, tzemx G bzpuxy ew, ak
gueyx pdy ak yxmehzw.  Ud wzx xoxdedh guxoefrb wf zxu ixedh iufrhzw wf
ak zfax, ak afwzxu zpy bpey gmpkjrmmk, "G zpox p guxwwk guxbxdw jfu ak
Eecwfu--wfafuuft zx bzpmm zpox ew."  Jdy tzxd, fd wzx afuuft, bzx
guxbxdwxy Zmelpixwz wf ax pb zxu gufaebxy hejw, G, tewz czemyebz
bxuefrbdxbb, edwxuguxwxy zxu tfuyb mewxupmmk pdy mffnxy rgfd Zmelpixwz
pb aedx--aedx wf gufwxcw, mfox, pdy czxuebz.  Jmm gupebxb ixbwftxy fd
zxu G uxcxeoxy pb apyx wf p gfbbxbbefd fj ak ftd.  Cx cpmmxy xpcz fwzxu
jpaemepumk ik wzx dpax fj cfrbed.  Yf tfuy, df xsguxbbefd cfrmy ifyk
jfuwz wzx nedy fj uxmpwefd ed tzecz bzx bwffy wf ax--ak afux wzpd
bebwxu, bedcx wemm yxpwz bzx tpb wf ix aedx fdmk.


